---
layout: post
title: Node JS
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

**As an asynchronous event driven JavaScript runtime**, Node is designed to build scalable network applications. In the following "hello world" example, many connections can be handled concurrently. Upon each connection the callback is fired, but if there is no work to be done, Node will sleep.
<!--more-->
<blockquote class="blockquote">
{% highlight javascript %}
const http = require('http');

const hostname = '127.0.0.1';

const port = 3000;

const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {

    res.statusCode = 200;

    res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/plain');

    res.end('Hello World\n');

});

server.listen(port, hostname, () => {

    console.log(`Server running at http://${hostname}:${port}/`);

});
{% endhighlight %}
</blockquote>

This is in contrast to today's more common concurrency model where OS threads are employed. Thread-based networking is relatively inefficient and very difficult to use. Furthermore, users of Node are free from worries of dead-locking the process, since there are no locks. Almost no function in Node directly performs I/O, so the process never blocks. Because nothing blocks, scalable systems are very reasonable to develop in Node.

Just because Node is designed without threads, doesn't mean you cannot take advantage of multiple cores in your environment. Child processes can be spawned by using our **```child_process.fork()```** API, and are designed to be easy to communicate with. Built upon that same interface is the **cluster** module, which allows you to share sockets between processes to enable load balancing over your cores